.TH VNET 1 "June 2025" "VoidNet Manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vnet - minimalist airgap and blackhole routing utility for Linux

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vnet
.RI \[ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B VoidNet (vnet)
is a lightweight shell-based security tool that simulates an airgapped environment by blackhole-routing all outbound traffic and unloading NIC modules. It provides advanced traffic monitoring via tcpdump and ngrep, DNS flushing, and a robust restoration process.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --on
Activate the airgap: flush DNS, unload NICs, and apply blackhole routing.
.TP
.BR --off
Deactivate the airgap: reload NICs, restore routes and DNS.
.TP
.BR --monitor
Start live monitoring of outbound traffic from kernel logs.
.TP
.BR --forensics-on
Start forensic capture mode (tcpdump + ngrep).
.TP
.BR --forensics-off
Stop forensic capture processes.
.TP
.BR --status
Display current network status: interfaces, DNS, routing table.
.TP
.BR --repair
Attempt forceful recovery of NIC and restore connectivity.
.TP
.BR --help
Show usage instructions and available options.

.SH USAGE
Run interactively with elevated privileges:
.BR
sudo ./vnet

Run via command line flag:
.BR
sudo vnet --on

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/vnet.pid
Temporary PID tracking for forensic monitoring.
.TP
.I /etc/resolv.conf
Temporarily backed up and restored during DNS flush/repair.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
Linux OS with iproute2, iptables, tcpdump, ngrep
.TP
Root privileges for network modification
.TP
Recommended: Void Linux (musl), Debian, Alpine, or compatible minimal distro

.SH BUGS
If NICs do not restore, run:
.B sudo dhcpcd -d
and manually verify:
.B ip link show

.SH AUTHOR VoidNet was developed by \[D. Jenkins] a secure and minimalist Linux containment utility for privacy-focused and forensic workflows.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
.BR iptables (8),
.BR tcpdump (1),
.BR ngrep (1),
.BR resolv.conf (5)

.SH LICENSE
MIT License

.SH DISCLAIMER
VoidNet is provided for educational and ethical security use only. Use responsibly.
